Welcome back, so we've learned
how to overload the copy and
move assignment operators.
Now let's look at some of the other
operators that c++ lets us overload.
C++ allows us to overload
operators as member methods or
as global non-member functions.
In this video we'll use member
methods to overload operators.
And in the next video, we'll
overload the same operators
using global functions.
So let's start with unary operators.
Unary operators work on one operand.
Those operators include the
increment, decrement, unary negation
and the bang or not operator.
Notice the basic method
declaration in bold.
In the case that we have to return
a new object from the method, we'll
return the new object by value.
Also notice that unary member
methods have an empty parameter list.
This is because the object
we're working with is referred
to by the this pointer.
So here you can see the prototypes
for the unary operators.
If we wanted them to work with
our hypothetical number class.
Also notice that we can overload
both the pre and post decrement
and increment operators.
C++ simply provides an int that
isn't used in the parameters
for the post increment.
At the bottom of the slide, you
can see how we can use the unary
operators as we do with the built-in
types and what methods are being
called in the comment section.
Suppose we wanted to overload
the unary minus operator to
work with our my string class,
and we want to make the string
lower case whenever it's used.
So we can create a my string
object named Larry1 with the
initializer string uppercase Larry.
Then we can use the unary
minus operator on Larry1 and
store the result in Larry2.
Now Larry1 will still contain
the uppercase Larry string,
but Larry2 will contain
the lowercase Larry string.
This is a simple example of unary
operator overloading using member
methods, however, the question
is whether this makes sense.
We're programmers we can
make anything happen in code.
Does it make sense for the
unary minus operator to mean
make the string lower case?
It depends on the context of
the application and the design.
Personally, I'd prefer a method
named lowercase or lowercase or too
lower since that's very explicit.
But this might make
sense in another design.
Let's see how the code might look.
Here's the code for
overloading the unary minus
to make a string lower case.
Notice the method header.
We're returning a new object
that will be the lowercase
copy of the existing object.
We're overloading the operator minus.
We expect no parameters
to this method.
And it's a const method since we don't
want to modify the current object.
We want to create a
new object based on it.
So the first thing we do is
allocate space for an area in
memory on the heap where we
want to store the lowercase copy
of the current object string.
Then we use the stood string copy
function to copy the string over.
Then we simply loop through
the characters in the copy and
convert each character to its
lowercase equivalent, using
the character function to lower
in the cc type header file.
Once we have the buffer lower
case, then we construct a temporary
mystring object using this
lowercase string as the initializer.
Finally, we delete the buffer we
created in this method so we don't
leak memory and we return the
newly created lowercase object.
We could certainly write more
optimized code here, but I wrote this
method to show each step explicitly.
So that's the general pattern
for overloading a unary
operator using a member method.
Now let's see how we can
implement some binary operators
also using member methods.
As we know binary operators
are applied to two operands.
These operators include addition,
multiplication, division the
equality operators and many more.
The pattern for overloading these
operators is very similar to the way
we overloaded unary operators except
that now we have a single parameter
in the method parameter list.
I've named this parameter RHS,
which stands for right-hand side.
That way it's very clear that RHS
refers to the parameter on the
right-hand side of the operator.
And the this pointer points
to the object on the left-hand
side of the operator.
Notice the overloaded addition
and subtraction operators
return the newly created sum
or difference objects by value.
Also notice that the equality
operators return Boolean
values which makes sense since
they're comparing things.
You can see in the bottom of the slide
how these operators might be used
in our hypothetical number class.
Now let's see how we can
implement the equality
operator in the mystring class.
In the case of my string objects,
we want to compare the strings
to see if they're the same.
We don't want to compare the pointers.
Instead, we want to compare the
strings that the pointers point to.
Rather than write all the code
ourselves, we can use the stood
string compare function in the c
string header file, which compares
c-style strings exactly as we need.
When we call that function with
two c-style strings, it will
return 0 if the strings are equal.
So this method becomes
almost trivial to implement.
We compare str from this object to
scr from the right-hand side object.
And if the result is 0, we return
true, otherwise we return false.
That's it.
Now we can write code like if
s1 equals s2 to compare two
mystring objects for equality.
What if we wanted to write
an overloaded equality
operator for the player class.
Well, we'd have to decide
what we want to compare.
Are we comparing the names
of two objects or the health
or the xp or everything.
This would be an important decision
and the programmers using the
player class would have to be
clear as to what's being compared
so they can use it correctly.
Now let's wrap up these slides
by overloading the addition
operator for the mystring class.
Suppose we wanted to overload
the binary plus operator for
the mystring class so that it
concatenates the strings from
the left-hand side and right
hand-side objects into a new object.
Then we could use this
as in the example code.
First, we can create my string
objects Larry and Moe and Stooges.
Then we can write a statement
like Larry plus Stooges which
will concatenate the string Larry.
And the string and stooges
to create a new string.
Larry is one of the three stooges.
Notice that we can also use c style
strings on the right-hand side.
This is because we have a
mystring constructor that can
construct mystring objects
from a c-style string.
That's pretty cool.
The only limitation to overloading
operators as member functions
is that the object on the
left-hand side must be an object
of the class you're using.
For example, the last statement
in this slide won't compile
since the left-hand side operand
is not a my string object.
We can get this to work in the
next video when we implement
operators as non-member functions.
Okay, so let's take a look
at the code for this method.
It's probably exactly
as you would expect.
We allocate a character buffer
large enough for both of the strings
plus one for the string terminator.
Then we allocate this
buffer on the heap.
First, we copy over the left side
string with std string copy, and
then we concatenate the right
side string with std string cat.
We create the new object that will
contain the concatenated string
using the buffer as the initializer.
And then finally, we
de-allocate the local buffer
area so we don't leak memory.
And then, we return the newly
created object by value.
You can see that first
this looks complicated.
But the more you do it patterns
evolve that are very very similar.
Great, so let's head over to the IDE and
implement these operators for the
my string class as member methods.
Okay, so I'm back, and I'm in the IDE.
I'm in the section 14 workspace in
the mystream-operator-methods project.
In this project, what we're going
to do is we're going to overload
three operators as member methods.
And the ones we're going to
overload are right here the equality
operator that allows us to compare
two objects as we can see here.
The negation operator, the unary
minus operator, which in our
case we're going to make whatever
string we want to negate lowercase.
And finally, the concatenation
operator that'll take two string
objects and make a bigger string
object from it that contains
those two strings put together,
just like we've done before
using the regular string class.
And you can see we can extend this
so we can have Moe plus blank plus
Larry plus blank plus Curly, and
this is a c-style string right here.
So it'll be pretty flexible.
Okay, so why don't we start.
We're going to implement
them as member methods.
So let's go to our header file, and
create our method prototypes here.
In the case of the concatenation and
the unary minus where we're going
to make things lower case, we're
going to return mystring objects.
So we'll create a mystring object, and
it's going to be returned by value we
want to create a new object, right.
We're going to take those two
strings, make a new one, return it.
We're going to take that one
string, make it lower case
into a new one, return it.
We're not going to change anything
that we've got going on already.
So let's do the operator
minus first okay.
So it's going to be the operator.
We're overloading, again, is
operator followed by the operator we
want, which is minus in this case.
And what are we going to be
passing into this, nothing.
That's a unary operator.
So we've already got what we need
into the left side of the dot.
It's important to understand that
when we're overloading operators
as member methods unary operators
take no parameters, binary operators
take one parameter because this is
already a parameter on the left side.
And we want this to be const.
And this will mean, let's say, make
lowercase version of the string.
All right, now let's do the
concatenation operator.
This is a binary operator.
So we need one parameter in this
parameter list, and that parameter
will be const mystring reference,
and we'll call it right-hand side.
Important that it's const because we
really don't want to mess with that.
And then the last one is
the equality operator.
It will return a Boolean,
a true false value.
And it will be operator,
two equal signs.
It's binary.
So it's going to expect a const
mystring reference, right-hand
side and we want this to
be a const method as well.
So I don't want to change anything.
Actually, I want this
one to be const as well.
That's it.
So those are the three prototypes.
Now what we'll do is we'll
go to the mystring cpp file,
our implementation file, and
we'll implement those methods.
So let's do that now.
Okay, so I'm going to put them
right here right after the
overloaded assignment operators.
And why don't we start with the
overloaded equality operator.
So that one is, again, bool.
It returns a Boolean.
It's part of mystring class, the
name is operator, two equal signs.
And it expects on the right side a
mystring reference to a constant.
We'll call it RHS, and the
method is a const method as well.
Okay, so what do we do here?
Well, we want to compare
those two strings, right.
The string in this and the
string and right-hand side.
So all we really need to do is just
simply say return, and then we can
call std string compare, which is
a c-string function that compares
two c-strings is which we've got.
So str is one of them.
And right-hand side dot
str is the other one.
And if that returns 0, we'll
return the value there.
Okay, so simple as that.
We could use an if else
statement if we like.
But this works just as well.
So that takes care of that, and
this will be, let's see, equality.
Now let's do make lowercase.
And in this case, we're returning
mystring object by value.
It's part of the mystring class.
There's my scope resolution
operator, and it's operator minus
nothing in the parameter list
because it's a unary operator.
And it's const because we don't want
to change our current object again.
Now what do we have to do here.
Remember, we need to make a copy
of whatever is in the current
object, make that lowercase, and
then create a new object from it.
I need to allocate space
to create that copy so
that I can make lowercase.
I don't want to change the
object because I can't right.
I don't want to. It's a const method.
So what do we do.
Well, let's create a temporary
area and memory called
buff, and we'll create a new
array of characters there.
And how big is that going to be.
Well, it's going to be as big as the
length of the string in str plus 1.
And again, we're using std string
length here, given that string.
So if it's frank, I'm going
to get back 5, allocate 1.
This is a brand new pointer to an area
on the heap that I just allocated.
It's local to this function.
So when we're finished with
function, we need to get rid
of that and de-allocate it.
So now what do I do.
Well, at this point I need to copy
the string that's in str to buff.
Okay, now we've got a
copy of that string.
So what we can do now is we
can just simply loop through
that, and set I equal to 0.
And we can go while I is less than,
let's say, the string length of str
or the string length of buff actually.
So they're both the same right now.
And we're going to go by one.
That's it. And now inside the loop, what
we want to do is we just simply
want to say buff sub I equals the
lowercase version of it, right.
So std, and we're going to do
to lower which is a function
in the cc type header file.
So we'll say to lower and
to lower what, well, the
character itself buffs by.
That's it. Now we've got what we need.
Buff now contains a copy of
that original string and then
we just made it lowercase.
So what do we want to do now.
I want to create a new object, the
temporary object right on the stack
here based on that information.
So I'm going to say my string.
We'll just call it temp, and
we'll initialize it from buff.
Now we want to return temp,
and then we'll be done.
But there's one thing we need to do
and it's really easy to forget and
it's -- this is one of the benefits
of using smart pointers, which we'll
talk about later on in the course.
Right here I allocated
this area in memory.
I've used it right here.
I'm done with it.
I need to de-allocate that space.
Otherwise I'll leak that memory.
So I want to be sure that
right here I delete buff.
And that's it.
That takes care of that.
And then the last method is
the concatenate method, which,
again, is really straightforward.
We're going to create
a new string from it.
So by value, it's a mystring method.
We'll call it operator plus.
And it expects something on
the right-hand side, which
is mystring
by reference. We'll call it RHS, as usual.
And it's a const method as well.
That's it. So what do we do here.
Well, same idea here, right.
I just need to allocate an
area in memory for characters.
We'll call it buff again.
And how big is this going to be.
Well, this needs to be since we're
concatenating, it has to be the length
of this string plus the length of
the right-hand side string plus 1.
So that's all we're going to do.
We're just going to
say new char, how many.
Well, the length of str plus
the length of right-hand
side's str plus 1.
That allocates the storage
on the heap that I need.
At this point, I need to copy the
first string and then concatenate
the second string to it so I can
build the bigger string from it.
So we'll say std string copy
into buff from the left-hand
side string which is str.
Then we'll do a std string cat
to concatenate again into buff
from the right-hand sides str.
Perfect. So what we've done now is
we've just copied one string
and concatenated the other.
At this point, we've got the
information we need in buff
to create that new temporary
object that I'm going to return.
Same thing we did up here.
So we'll build that object.
We'll call it temp, and we'll
build it with the buff information.
Remember, delete buff.
We're done with it now.
And return that temporary object.
So that's it. We should be done
unless there's any typo.
So let's compile and run.
And you can see here we've got
a copy constructor being used.
Larry is 5, Moe is 3.
We got back false and true,
exactly what we expected.
We get Larry uppercase,
Larry lowercase l.
Then we have Moe and Larry,
Moe, Larry and Curly.
So everything looks great.
All right, so there you go.
That's an example of implementing
these three overloaded
operators as member methods.
You'll get a lot more chance
to practice this when we get
into the challenge exercise.
What we'll do in the next video is
we'll do the same three operators, but
we'll do them as non-member functions.